# Comments

## Issues

---

@**Adrian Izquieta** 01/10/2020

after doing this, it seems it should be possible to move a page around and it would maintain the new "global tag" but that does not seem to be the case?

@**Jupiter Dawn** 02/11/112020

@Adrian Izquieta ...you're absolutely right! I hadn't noticed. I tested it by dragging "Dog Food" from the shopping list to calendar... and the tags disappeared. BUT they came back when I dragged it back! interesting.

@**Tyler Wince** 04/26/2020

Having the same issue as @Adrian Izquiet. Anyone found a solution to that yet?

@**Jeff MacKie-Mason** 1/5/2021 

I had thought that "keeping your tags consistent across databases" would mean that tags were preserved when moving a note from one database to another ... but apparently not? I have a property with the same name in both databases that connects to my global tag database, but when I move a note from one database to the other the ("global") tags disappear. Is there any workaround for this?

@**Jupiter Dawn** 01/05/2021

No, "keeping your tags consistent across databases" unfortunately only means that your "🐾Pets" tag is the same one across all of your tables. The only workaround is to add the tag again. This may work in some setups because you'll only need to do this once per table. If you move the note back to a previous database the tag will reappear. Otherwise it's just an unfortunate limitation. 😕

---

@**Jessica Wilkinson** 05/30/2020

Helpful! Except when I use this 'tag' as a relational property, the folded paper icon shows up in front of my selected emoji. Does this happen to anyone else? Doesn't look pretty!

You have to open the tag page and select an icon, not just start the name with an emoji

---

@**Richard Samson** 08/09/2020

To convoluted to use as a simple tagging system.  Each page would need it's own database, each tag row need a title, and jumping back to the page from the tags database is awkward.  Notion really needs a native tagging feature within each page.

---

@**Sascha Liem** 05/27/2020

I fail to reproduce this :( Could you pls create step-by-step description including screenshots?

---

### Ideas / Thoughts

---

@**Ryan Dejaegher** 11/30/2019

This is awesome! I actually just run into this issue of having "duplicate" tags across databases and this solves that problem. 

Another cool thing about this approach is that you can make use of a Rollup on your Master Tag list to count the number of times that tag has been used. Could be helpful for when you review your tags in the future

@**Danish Tahir** 02/12/2020

@Ryan how to setup the rollup on the master tag database? When I try to do it, it says no relation

@**Radosław Szalski** 05/25/2020

Thank you for this! How can I create a rollup that would count the usage of a given tag across all relations it's being used in? I looks like it's possible to only specify 1 relation in the configuration of a single rollup.

---

@**Rob Jennings** Edited 02/03/2020

This is a pretty great workaround. Is there a way of adding these "tags" after you've already added some? After you've added some, when you click on the field again, you can only see the ones you've added. The only way I can see around it is to remove the ones you have and re-add them. 

- SOLVED
You just need to click in the search field and wait a second. All the unselected options appear

---

@**João Mendes** Edited 02/13/2020

Its a nice try for implementing tag as an unnoficial system but it only allows pages as tags, not words, the way i see it. It would be more easy if there was a way to convert the page into tag or words into tags.

---

@**Lya van Lou** 07/05/2020

For those like me, who would like to get the most out of this approach, here's an extra: 
If you want to be able to view everything that contains one of your tags, you will have to put in a little bit of extra work to set it up, but it isn't really difficult. 
You just have to go to your tag's page, and in the section below the database stuff (below the "Add a comment"), link in all the databases that use this tag, and filter them to only show the tag in question. 
As I said, will take some time to setup, but once it's done, it will come in handy.

---

**@erin bruce** 1/5/2021

This tags database was working great! But it has stopped updating when I try to use the tags in other databases. It is not showing new tags recently added as options. It just asks me if I want to "create a new tag", but the tag has already been created. Can someone help me? This is driving me mad!!

@**Jupiter Dawn** 01/05/2021

@erin bruce I would make sure you are using a relational Tags property that you created and NOT the default one Notion includes in tables by default. Also, once you have a lot of tags in there it can take a few seconds for all the options to load into the tag bar.

---

## Kudos 😊

---

@**Geir Illing Nordvik** 02/07/2020

Thank you so much for this! I encountered a problem with having to rewrite about 50 tags for many different pages in my work area. This pretty much solved that issue. Amazing! :D

---

@**Cal Desmond-Pearson** 02/11/2020

Many thanks for this! I'm a newbie and find the Notion Community such as yourself welcoming and keen to share/guide.

---

[data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

@**Lotus Blue** 03/06/2020

amazing

---

@**佩琪 謝** 04/01/2020

Thank you very much!

---

@**Борис Обрывалин** 06/09/2020

Большое спасибо за подробную инструкцию!

---

@**Loïc Plé** 06/30/2020

Thanks so much!!!! This is so, so helpful! Would be even better if Notion managed that by default of course, but the trick that you have explained so well below is perfect! Thanks for the links and for the screenshots, they have enabled me to do it easily ;)

---

@**Jesse David** 10/23/2020

This is so helpful, thank you!

---

@**Avnish Patel** 11/30/2020

This is amazing! I was able to recreate the Roam Research experience in Notion because of this.

---

[data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)